All right.
So the next thing that I want to do is to move this logic for the previous and next page into its own
composable function.
And just to keep things fresh, let's have a single composable function that's going to return an object
with two reactive properties.
One of those properties will be a reactive object, storing the value for the previous page, and the
other value will be a reactive object during the value for the next page.
I'll show you how all of that's going to work in just a second.
But before we get to working on that composable function, I do want to mention one point, and that
is we're going to keep most of the code here for our composable.
But what I'm going to extract so that it doesn't belong in the body of the composable function is this
line right here of the max ceiling taken on the length of the filter jobs array because I don't want
to move the filter jobs array logic into my new composable function.
I want it to be generally a lot more reusable and flexible.
So if it's simply a function that's going to take a number and for example, incremented by one or decrement
it by one.
That's the kind of logic I can easily see working on many other applications throughout the site.
In comparison, this is kind of specific to what job listings cares about.
Job listings cares about that there is a filter jobs array and that it only wants to have ten jobs on
the page.
And that's what it's using to calculate the max page logic.
This logic is kind of more exclusive to job listings and less concerned about previous page and next
page.
Here's another way I can make that argument.
Imagine you had another component that wanted to also render filter jobs but wanted to render 15 per
page.
Right.
In that scenario, if we hardcoded this logic, including the division by ten into a composable, then
it would be stuck at ten.
There would be no way to customize that.
So in order to extract that and not let the composable function be so specific, I'm going to move this
logic out.
So right here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to declare Max Page and it's going to be a computed
property or a computed function to be more specific.
And it's simply going to calculate the max page based on the relationship that this component cares
about.
So we're going to copy that logic from below.
And this is pretty simple because we have our filter jobs array right here.
And so we're getting the value of the actual ray and it's length divided by ten and we're storing that
in a computed function.
So whenever our filter jobs rate changes, so will this function, it's going to rerun.
Basically, the key takeaway here is that there's nothing specific to this max page logic that is directly
related to next page here.
And so once again, Max Page is not intrinsically related to next page.
Next page needs something called Max Page.
Determine whether there is room to go to next page.
But the specific logic of what that calculation or relationship is is exclusive to just job listings
component.
All right.
It'll kind of come together when we make our composable function.
So let's do that right now.
So I'm going to whip open my file explorer and in my source composable folder, I'm going to create
my new file called Use Previous and Next Pages.
Doctor.
Yes, and of course, I can maybe split this into two composable functions.
Totally fine.
I just want to try a little bit of a different approach to keep things fresh.
So in here, I'm going to define my arrow function.
I'm going to call it use previous and next pages.
And for now, we won't have any parameters, but we'll add some momentarily.
And very quickly, let's remember to export default that new function.
So what I'm going to do in the body of this function is basically copy all the logic I have right here.
So I'm just going to copy and paste everything I have from line 62 to 72, our declaration of previous
page and next page into the body of this new composable function.
All right.
So we're immediately going to need some things in order for this to work.
First up, we're going to need to import our computed function.
And that is going to come from view.
All right.
That takes care of that.
The next thing we're going to worry about is here.
We're depending on current page.
Current pages.
A reminder is calculated from our composable function that we defined in the previous lesson.
So how do I get access to the current page reactive object in this composable?
I'm going to need to pass it in as a parameter so we can have a composable function like this that is
going to return reactive objects.
But remember, our functions can also accept reactive objects.
So let's say that our use previous and next pages composable function is going to receive a parameter
called current page, and current page is going to be a reactive object and thus it's going to have
a value property.
And all of the logic in this section will continue to hold true.
All right.
Now this looks good to me.
Let's move on to next page.
For next page, we were relying on Max Page and having that former relationship or that former formula
of dividing, filter, jobs, etc., by ten.
Right.
We no longer care about this, but we're going to need something called Max Page in order to do this
comparison right here.
So what I'm going to do is once again provide Max Page.
As a parameter.
And that allows me to delete this right here.
The only caveat here is that remember or not remember, but realize that I intend Max Page to be not
just a number but a reactive object storing a number.
We can see that right here from line 61.
This is going to be the value we pass in as an argument to the new composable.
So Max Page is not just a number, it's a reactive object that stores a number.
So because in passing in a reactive object, I can't simply do a max page right here.
I have to do max page dot value, right for next page.
Right.
Here we can keep next page because on the previous line I am getting it from the current pages value
property instead.
So this will be a number and I'm going to compare a number to a number to determine whether there is
a next page or whether there isn't, which is marked by undefined.
All right.
So now we have two computed function calls that are returning to reactive objects, but we're not returning
anything from the composable.
So what I'm going to return is going to be a plain JavaScript object with those two properties, both
of which are storing my reactive objects.
So right here, I'm going to do previous page and next page.
All right.
It's very important to note here that I am not returning a reactive object.
I'm returning a regular object with two reactive properties.
Thus, if I de structure previous page and next page in my job listings component, I am already going
to get reactive objects.
Thus I do not need to use two refs.
All right.
This is not a reactive object whose properties I need to this structure and make reactive.
It is the opposite.
It is a plane JavaScript object, but it's individual to properties.
Previous page and next page are holding reactive objects.
All right, so with that written out, we can go ahead and import this.
So right here, I'm going to import.
Use previous and next pages.
That's going to come from the source directory.
Composable use at previous and next pages.
And right here, let's begin once again by commenting out everything we previously had right here.
Previous page in next page.
All right.
And what are we going to do?
We're going to invoke our used previous and next pages composable function.
It takes two arguments current page and max page, both of which are reactive objects.
Right.
So for current page, we have that object returned from the use current page composable.
So we're using the return value of one composable.
Remember, use current page, returns a reactive object as created by the computed function.
So that makes it a perfect argument to pass into here because it's going to have a value property.
So in other words, when we invoke use previous next pages and we provide current page from this component
that is going to be a reactive object.
And then the second argument that is expected here is Max Page.
Max Page's on the line above.
It is also a reactive object coming from computed.
So we can fit it in exactly as is as well.
All right.
This is one of the most common mistakes that a lot of people make when working with the composition
API.
They forget that.
They forget the relationship in both directions.
They forget that they have a reactive object that is a value that needs a value property that needs
to be accessed.
So they sometimes think they have a reactive object when what they have is a plain JavaScript value,
or alternatively they think they have a JavaScript value and what they have is a reactive object, right?
In this case, our composable is dependent on getting to reactive objects.
And because they're reactive objects from view, they're going to have the value property.
And that's exactly what we have being returned by use current page and computed right here.
All right.
So with that, we are able to do this.
And then keep in mind that what we're needing from here is these two properties, previous page and
next page, because that's what we are returning here in the return object from the setup method.
So in order for the template to have previous page and next page, I'm going to just structure these
two return properties.
So right here I'm going to, to structure previous page and next page.
And once again, because we are getting them already as reactive properties, these are already computed
function calls, they're already wrapped in that we do not need to pass this object into to Raf's.
These are already going to be reactive properties and thus they're going to update automatically when
the entire combination of changes occurs.
So once again, for example, when the use current page composable function reruns, it will in turn
trigger a change to this function to rerun.
Same thing if Max Page changes, which will of course force all of this to rerun re execute their own
computed functions which are keeping track of those respective properties on the current page, right,
and the max page as well.
And whenever those change, the return values here will be different and our template will update accordingly.
The key takeaway here is everything that we had isolated to these manual computed function calls that
were in the job listings component.
We still have all the benefits of that, but we've now isolated it in smaller, more lightweight, reusable,
separate functions in separate files that we can test.
So with that, we can go ahead and remove this logic right here and now that's going to be left is going
to be displayed a job.
So I'm going to save that.
Let's see if there's anything we can remove from up here.
It doesn't look like there is everything is still being used.
So with that, you can sort of immediately start to tell how our setup method is starting to become
smaller and how its individual responsibilities are isolated away.
And it's really easy for us to open up that composable function, see what that thing is doing, check
out the test for that and see how that is supposed to work.
Well, while job listings is simply saying, I'm going to talk to these things and get some reactive
values from them and simply use them as either values in my template or as values to pass to other composable
that themselves are going to give me more reactive values.
So we've kind of extracted a lot of the method logic from setup into smaller functions and that is the
whole benefit of the composition API.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.